---
layout: post
title: My Goals for 2016
categories: [life]
tags: [goals, aims, targets]
published: false
---

I've never been one for making new years resolution, or even getting excited about the new year for that matter, but this year is a little different. My life has become stagnant. Slow, repeatitive and focused too much on one thing. It's time for change, and the beginning of a new year is a great opportunity.

So, I've decided to make a list of targets for the coming year. It's something that I've been through a few variations of in my short career (KPIs, OKRs and now V2MOMs) and they seem to work well if you make them measurable and achiveable. Being that it's 2016, I've decided to come up with 6 goals:


### Write more about my personal experiences

I've had this site for a while, but apart from a short spell of writing during my free time at University I've never really got in the flow of regularly posting content, and when I have, it's always generally been centered around my work. This forms my first goal for the year, to write consistently about various aspects of both work and life. I'll be aiming to average one post a week throughout the year (that's 52 for anyone struggling with the maths).

Aim: Write more
Target: 52 posts


### Particpate in a sprint triathalon

In October 2014 I took on my biggest sporting challenge (outside of football) by running the Ealing half marathon with a few close friends. It was a great day and a fantastic event, but it wasn't something I decided to carry forward unlike my friends. Long distance running isn't for me, but a multi-disciplined event is something that I believe will ignite that motivation again. By the end of the year, I'll be aiming to enter and complete a sprint triathalon (750m swim, 20km bike, 5km run).

Aim: Complete a sprint triathalon
Target: Get a medal


### Learn to cook properly

The previous goal brings with it a few new challenges, one of which is to look after my body more, and eating better is a great way to do that. I've been making excuses for years about why I've never really learned to cook properly... "I've not got the time", "It's hard cooking for one" and "I'll only cook something that requires a tiny amount of washing up". This needs to change. Cooking is something I'll be doing for the rest of my life, so it would be obsurd to not improve my skills and learn to enjoy the process more.

Aim: Cook more frequently and healthier
Target: One new meal a month. No jars/quick sauces/shortcuts


### Side projects with a meaning

A great deal of my time over the past 3 years has been dedicated to my career - working on open source projects, doing out of hours work. Although this has done a great deal for me, I'd like to start applying that focus and effort towards my side projects, but not just any side projects. I'd like to give back to my family and friends, those people who has stuck with me and supported me over the years. It can be anything from a simple application to help with managing their finances at home, to automating a mundane task at their workplace. I'm not sure what kind of things I'll end up building over the year, but that's exciting. The main part is that I use my skills to help family and friends.

Aim: Develop side projects for friends and family
Target: 3 projects

